cloud: add the release note for TiDB-X-CLOUD.202510.1 (#23147)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/releases/tidb-cloud-kernel-versioning.md

---
title: Kernel Versioning for TiDB Cloud Premium
summary: Learn about the kernel versioning rules and format for TiDB Cloud Premium.
---

# Kernel Versioning for TiDB Cloud Premium

This document describes the versioning rules for the underlying database kernel used by TiDB Cloud Premium.

> **Note:**
>

> > This document is applicable to TiDB Cloud Premium only. For TiDB Cloud Starter, Essential, and Dedicated, their kernel versions correspond directly to TiDB Self-Managed versions. To learn about features, improvements, and bug fixes included in a specific kernel version, refer to the corresponding [TiDB Self-Managed release notes](/releases/release-notes.md).

Author: ```suggestion
> - This document applies only to TiDB Cloud Premium.
> - TiDB Cloud Starter and Essential instances run on a customized TiDB X engine based on the classic TiDB v8.5.3 kernel. This kernel differs slightly from the TiDB Cloud Premium kernel.
> - TiDB Cloud Dedicated clusters run on the classic TiDB kernel, and their kernel versions correspond directly to TiDB Self-Managed versions.
```

> 

Reviewer: For TiDB Starter and Essential , their kernels are based on a special kernal ,not the same as TiDB Self-Managed versions.

## Kernel versioning

TiDB Cloud Premium kernel versions use the following time-based format:

```text
TiDB-X-CLOUD.YYYYMM.x
```

For example:

```text
TiDB-X-CLOUD.202510.1
```

Where:

- `YYYYMM` indicates the baseline code branch used to develop the kernel. For example, `202510` means that the baseline branch was created in October 2025. It does not indicate when the kernel version was released.
- `x` indicates the patch release number for that baseline branch.

For example, `TiDB-X-CLOUD.202510.1` indicates that the kernel is based on a branch created in October 2025 and is the first patch release built from that branch.

Because kernel development and release schedules are independent, a kernel version might be released several months after its baseline branch is created.

> Because TiDB Cloud Premium follows its own kernel release cadence, its release notes are published separately from the TiDB Self-Managed release notes.

Author: ```suggestion
Because TiDB Cloud Premium follows its own kernel release cadence, TiDB Cloud Premium release notes are published separately from TiDB Self-Managed release notes.
```

---
title: Kernel Versioning for TiDB Cloud Premium
summary: Learn about the kernel versioning rules and format for TiDB Cloud Premium.
---

# Kernel Versioning for TiDB Cloud Premium

This document describes the versioning rules for the underlying database kernel used by TiDB Cloud Premium.

> **Note:**
>

> > - This document applies only to TiDB Cloud Premium.

Author: ```suggestion
> The kernel versioning rules described in this document apply only to TiDB Cloud Premium. Other TiDB Cloud plans use different kernel versioning models:
>
```

> > - TiDB Cloud Starter and Essential instances run on a customized TiDB X engine based on the classic TiDB v8.5.3 kernel. This kernel differs slightly from the TiDB Cloud Premium kernel.

Author: ```suggestion
> - TiDB Cloud Starter instances run on a customized TiDB X engine based on the classic TiDB v8.5.3 kernel. This kernel differs slightly from the TiDB Cloud Premium kernel.
> - TiDB Cloud Essential instances run on a customized TiDB X engine based on the classic TiDB v8.5.3 kernel by default. If you want to run your TiDB Cloud Essential instances on the same kernel as TiDB Cloud Premium, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-support). 
```

---
title: Kernel Versioning for TiDB Cloud Premium
summary: Learn about the kernel versioning rules and format for TiDB Cloud Premium.
---

# Kernel Versioning for TiDB Cloud Premium

This document describes the versioning rules for the underlying database kernel used by TiDB Cloud Premium.

> **Note:**
>
> The kernel versioning rules described in this document apply only to TiDB Cloud Premium. Other TiDB Cloud plans use different kernel versioning models:
>
> - TiDB Cloud Starter instances run on a customized TiDB X engine based on the classic TiDB v8.5.3 kernel. This kernel differs slightly from the TiDB Cloud Premium kernel.

> > - TiDB Cloud Essential instances run on a customized TiDB X engine based on the classic TiDB v8.5.3 kernel by default. If you want to run your TiDB Cloud Essential instances on the same kernel as TiDB Cloud Premium, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-support). 

Author: ```suggestion
> - TiDB Cloud Essential instances run on a customized TiDB X engine based on the classic TiDB v8.5.3 kernel by default. If you want your TiDB Cloud Essential instances to run on the same kernel as TiDB Cloud Premium, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-support).
```
